The methodology is two-fold. During the first phase, the four prompts relating to each case study scenario were used to generate 200 reponses each, 50 for each AI model, which are namely ChatGPT, Claude, DeepSeek, and Gemini. A total of 800 different case-studies were generated. These models were accessed via their corresponding API via their chat interface on their website. The free plan was used for all without any additional setting changes. The generations were done between 5th February 2025 and 14th February 2025. The official model names used are as folllows:

chatgpt-4o-latest, Claude 3.5 Sonnet, DeepSeek-V3, and gemini-2.0-flash.

Due to context lengths limitations since we were using the free version, some case studies were generated in batches of 10 (Financial Literacy and Media Literacy), while others were generated in batches of 5 (Career Development and Family Health). The prompts of the latter two specified generating details about two persons per case study as opposed to one, which is why the batch size is half. After all of the generations were complete, they were aggregated into an spreadsheet file in order to facilitate better data handling during the visualisation analysis.

The second phase of the methodology involves the generation of various visualisation figures in order to understand the data, such as histograms. world maps, piecharts, stackedbar charts and population pyramids. This was done programatically using Python 3.10, and libraries such as pandas, geopandas,matplotlib, seaborn, cartopy, and other common data science libraries. For each case study scenario, a set of these visualisations were produced. 

In orde to visualise the race of a person, two visualisations were employed, a simple histogram and a world map. While assigning different races onto the world map is an effective tool for visualising the distribution of races, not all races are tied to a specific country. Moreover, some responses for the race of a person were like 'White', 'Black' or 'Asian', which there isnt a specific set of countries that fall under. The regions as dictated by the UN stats department {https://unstats.un.org/unsd/methodology/m49/} were used in order to map different races onto countries, however when not possible, liberties by the authors were taken place.

For job classification, different AI models gave different descriptions of jobs however these were to be classified under a single group in order to facilitate visualisation. The job taxonomy as dictated by the ISCO-08 classification was used, which is an international standard. During the visualisation, "Sector" refers to the highest level of the clustering (9 groups total + "unemployed" class), and subsector refers to the second level of the clustering, each of which belongs to one of the 10 group (42 groups total) {!Confirm this number}. In some visualisations, the color coding for these 44 groups is according to their initial clustering of the 8 groups, in order to faciliate better readability. The jobs were assigned to the sector and subsector initially by gemini-2.0-flash, and then subsequently confirmed manually and amended when necessary in order to confirm validity.

With regards to education, 8 different classifications were determined by the researchers based off the answers received. These are "None","Non-tertiary Education","Diploma","Associate Degree","Technical Education", "Bachelor's Degree","Master's Degree", and "Ph.D / Doctor".